.TH doom 6 "21 Feb 2012"

.SH NAME
doom \- a 2.5D first\-person shooter game, by ID Software

.SH DESCRIPTION
This page documents the command\-line options typically accepted
by Doom and its source ports, and related games such as Heretic
and Hexen. It is not an exhaustive list, and does not replace the
documentation (if any) provided with a particular source port.

Most of this content came from the Doom Wiki pages at
.nh
http://doomwiki.org/wiki/Parameter and http://doomwiki.org/wiki/Source_port_parameters
.hy

.SS Terms
The terms "source port" and "engine" are interchangeable. Both refer
to Doom engines based on the ID Software Doom source code release.
Although ID did long ago release binary builds of official Doom for Linux and other
flavors of UNIX, these are mostly of historical interest today. Source
ports are the standard way to play these days. Examples of source
ports include: zdoom, skulltag, odamex, prboom, chocolate-doom, doomlegacy.

The terms "option" and "parameter" are used as synonyms in this manual
page (which is a bit different from normal UNIX usage).
.SS Introduction
In respect to the Doom engine a parameter (or command line parameter and
command line argument) is a start\-up indication by the user that the
engine should change its default behavior. The parameters are typed after
the executable's name in the command line and are followed by variables or
text strings, if applicable.

Many parameters that affect in\-game behavior require warping through
\-wart, \-warp, \-episode, \-skill, \-playdemo, \-record, or \-loadgame, or else
they are overridden when the user starts a game through the menu. In
deathmatch and cooperative modes an extra program called a device driver
by the Doom documentation handles some of the multiplayer specifics and
passes any parameters to the main executable. The extra program will also
warp the player to the first level of the game if no other warping
parameter is used. Unless stated otherwise, parameters work for all
versions of both Doom and Doom II, with some exceptions that are detailed
accordingly in their descriptions. Note that if you warp internally using
the idclev cheat code, any parameters that required warping will be
disabled.
.SS Engine variants
While most parameters are available to all the released versions of the
Doom games, some became obsolete with newer versions, and some were added
as features were enabled or changed. Earlier versions of the engine,
particularly up to 1.2, tend to require the \-devparm parameter (that
enables "developers mode") to use many of the parameters, but later
versions do not require it.

Ports of the Doom engine usually retain most if not all the available
parameters, and sometimes add some of their own, or customize some of the
original ones. Since ports often rely less on the command line and more on
a graphical user interface they may have alternate ways of entering
commands and parameters. Doom95, for example, accepts the usual parameters
but adds a launcher to be used by default for all purposes, and various
source ports add a console that can handle most options and variables, or
support drag\-and\-drop capabilities that take care of some of the start\-up
options.

Other games with Doom\-based engines, such as Heretic, Hexen, and Strife,
also use the same parameters with only slight differences, mostly because
of required customizations or because they are based on earlier versions
of the Doom engine that did not include all the parameters available in
the latest versions of the Doom games.

The parameter descriptions in the list below are preceded by practical
identifiers which give a general idea of what the general effect of each
parameter is. The parameter identifiers include:

* Analysis: measures something
.br
* Configuration: access to settings or files
.br
* Gameplay: changes the way the game is played
.br
* Input: affects player input devices
.br
* Monsters: affects monster qualities
.br
* Multiplayer: enables multiplayer functions
.br
* None: disabled development parameter (may be re\-enabled in some source ports)
.br
* Output: affects sound or graphic output
.br
* Recording: records or plays demos
.br
* Warping: starts the game in a level

Below the identifier each parameter description includes a basic command
line structure, headed by the type of executable needed or generally used
with the parameter, mainly doom (doom.exe or doom2.exe) or a driver
(ipxsetup.exe or sersetup.exe), and followed by other required parameters,
the parameter in question, and a variable, if applicable. If doom is used
driver also applies unless noted otherwise, and executable types not in
italics are actual executale file names.
.SS Notes
Except where noted, when a variable required by a parameter is a number,
any value lower than the lowest expected value will be taken as that
lowest value, and any value higher than the highest expected value, as
the highest value. Non\-numerical characters will be considered either as
the lowest or the highest value, depending whether the operating system
places them after or before the numbers in an alphanumeric listing.

Since this is a manual intended for Linux and other UNIX\-like systems,
the list of parameters below does not include DOS\-specific ones, such
as serial port or IPX settings. Also, you should consult the documentation
for the specific engine you are using. This man page is intended purely
as a convenience, and is not definitive.

Unlike many *NIX command\-line programs, Doom engines usually do not
report invalid arguments as errors (they are just ignored). If you're
not getting the behaviour you expected, check your typing, check the log
output from the engine, and check the actual documentation for the engine
(don't accept the stuff in this man page as gospel).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-altdeath\fR
.br
(gameplay, multiplayer)
.br
doom \-altdeath

The \-altdeath parameter enables the alternate deathmatch mode
(called deathmatch v2.0 in the documentation) added in version 1.5
where most items picked up by players respawn after a while after
being picked up. This also applies to weapons, which (unlike in
normal deathmatch mode) also disappear for a while upon being pick
up. The mode is meant for multiplayer games, although it will work
in single player mode as well (doom \-warp <map> \-altdeath), where
the player will be spawned on a deathmatch spot.
.TP
\fB\-avg\fR
.br
(multiplayer)
.br
doom \-deathmatch \-avg

This \-avg parameter tells Doom to behave as if \-timer 20 were
used. The three letters are an acronym that stands for an
establishment called "Austin Virtual Gaming" near the University
of Texas set up in 1994 for pay\-to\-play Doom multiplayer.
.TP
\fB\-bex\fR \fIfile\fR
Load a BEX patch file. See
.nh
http://doomwiki.org/wiki/BEX
.hy
.TP
\fB\-cdrom\fR
.br
(configuration)
.br
doom \-cdrom

This parameter makes the engine use C:\\DOOMDATA as the directory
where configuration data (such as default.cfg and any saved games
or screen shots) is stored, so that the game can be run directly
from a CD\-ROM. If the directory does not exist on the system, Doom
creates it. The disk activity indicator also changes to a picture
of a CD, rather than a diskette, when the parameter is applied.

Source ports for *nix that support this command will use a different
directory, such as \fI~/.<portname>/\fR.
.TP
\fB\-comdev\fR
.br
(configuration)
.br
doom \-comdev

With \-comdev the id Software developers told the engine to read
the WAD and lump data for the commercial game (Doom II) from
specified directories.
.TP
\fB\-complevel\fR \fIlevel\fR

Toggles various bug fixes and enhanced features for maximum compatibility
with other (related) source ports. A compatibility level of \-1 means
that all enhanced features and bug fixes are available, while 0 through
4 correspond to vanilla Doom, 5 corresponds to DOSDoom, 6 corresponds
to TASDOOM, 7 through 9 correspond to Boom, 10 corresponds to LxDoom, 11
corresponds to MBF, and 12 through 17 emulate earlier versions of PrBoom.

The above description is for prboom. Other engines that support \fB\-complevel\fR
may or may not use the same \fIlevel\fR values. Default behaviour in
the absence of \fB\-complevel\fR may (or may not) be determined based on which IWAD
file is loaded.
.TP
\fB\-config\fR
.br
(configuration)
.br
doom \-config <configuration>

With this parameter the engine uses an alternate configuration
file instead of the usual default.cfg. The required configuration
string may be just a file name (such as doom.cfg), which will be
read from (or created in) the game's directory, or a path\-and\-file
name (\fI~/.doom/doom.cfg\fR for example) if another directory is
desired.

The \-config parameter may be used along with \-cdrom, in which case
the configuration file will be assigned as chosen while saved
games and screen shots will be placed in the Doomdata directory.
.TP
\fB\-deathmatch\fR
.br
(gameplay, multiplayer)
driver \-deathmatch

The \-deathmatch parameter enables the head\-to\-head competitive
mode that pits players against each other, as opposed to the
cooperative mode. This is the original deathmatch mode where
ammunition and power\-ups do not respawn and weapons remain but can
be picked up only once per player life, like in cooperative games.
This parameter is meant for multiplayer games, although it will
work in single player mode as well (doom \-warp <map> \-deathmatch),
where the player will be spawned on a deathmatch spot.
.TP
\fB\-debugfile\fR
.br
(analysis)
.br
doom \-debugfile

With this parameter the engine produces a file listing available
realtics against used gametics to show the internal resources
available at each point during play or demo playback. It produces
a file called debug0.txt where the data is stored in real time.
This parameter has no effect when used in conjuction with
\-timedemo (which also deals with the same data).

This option is probably not supported by any modern source ports.
.TP
\fB\-deh\fR \fIfile\fR
Load a DeHacked patch file. See
.nh
http://doomwiki.org/wiki/DeHackEd
.hy
.TP
\fB\-devparm\fR
.br
(analysis, configuration)
.br
doom \-devparm

The developer's parameter runs the game in developer mode,
creating screen shots with the F1 key instead of displaying the
help screen and showing the tics\-per\-frame meter on the lower left
of the screen. If only the first dot on the meter is displayed,
performance is optimal. The \-devparm parameter is also required by
some parameters in older versions of Doom.
.TP
\fB\-ravpic\fR
.br
(analysis)
.br
heretic \-ravpic
.br
hexen \-ravpic

This parameter replaces \-devparm for Heretic and Hexen, and allows
to take screen shots with the F1 key. It does not display the
ticker which is instead enabled by cheat codes for these games,
ticker for Heretic and rrettenmund for Hexen. This parameter
doesn't exist for Doom.
.TP
\fB\-episode\fR
.br
(warping)
.br
doom \-episode <episode>

This parameter starts one of Doom's three episodes from its first
level. The usual values for the episode variable are the numbers
1, 2, or 3, representing each episode. This parameter is the
equivalent of \-warp <e> 1, where e is the number of the episode,
and when playing Doom II it always loads the first level of the
game, regardless of what episode number is chosen. The \-episode
parameter has no effect if no value is added after it.
.TP
\fB\-extratic\fR
.br
(multiplayer)
driver \-extratic

The \-extratic parameter provides extra data in each data packet
sent over the network; this adds redundancy and makes the game
more resilient to dropped packets at the possible cost of using
more bandwidth (see extratic).
.TP
\fB\-fast\fR
.br
(gameplay, monsters)
.br
doom \-warp <map> \-fast

The fast monsters parameter makes monsters attack often, increases
the speed of demons and spectres, and makes demonic fireballs
faster than usual. It requires warping (such as \-warp) to be
effective and was first introduced with version 1.2 of Doom. Note
that Heretic and Hexen lack this command.
.TP
\fB\-file\fR
.br
(configuration)
.br
doom \-file <files>

The \-file parameter allows Doom to load additional WADs and lumps,
beyond the usual IWAD. The files variable may be a single file
name, path\-and\-file name (if the file is in a different directory
than where Doom is run from), or a series of these. A second file
would be typed in one space after the first, a third one space
after the second, and so on. The order of multiple files may make
a difference, as equivalent lumps will be overwritten in the
run\-time memory, with the rightmost file in the list taking
precedence.

If any of the files is missing, the engine will
notify the user in the log output, but will still run
normally, missing files notwithstanding. Issues may occur if those
missing files are required, though, so it may be convenient not to
disable the warning if the location of files being loaded is
uncertain.

Normally, \-file's arguments are PWAD files (ending in \fI.wad\fR).
Some engines allow other file types, such as zip or pk3 files, raw lumps,
dehacked patches, or text files containing scripts.  In some engines,
use of \-file is optional (anything on the command line that isn't a
recognized option will be treated as a filename).
.TP
\fB\-fullscreen\fR, \fB\-fs\fR, \fB\-nowindow\fR

Some source ports use this to set full\-screen display mode,
overriding the setting in the config file.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-geometry\fR, \fB\-geom\fR, \fB\-width\fR, \fB\-height\fR

Various source ports use options like this to set the size of the
Doom window, overriding the size in the config file.
Examples: \fB\-geometry\fR \fI640x480\fR, \fB\-width\fR \fI640\fR \fB\-height\fR \fI480\fR
.TP
\fB\-left\fR
.br
(output)
.br
doom \-net 3 \-left

Under Doom version 1.0 or 1.1, the \-left parameter will cause a
networked computer to display the area to the left of the player's
normal view.

Several modern source ports have reinstated support for \-left
and \-right.
.TP
\fB\-host\fR \fInumplayers\fR
In zdoom and related ports, starts a multiplayer game for \fInumplayers\fR
players. The game will wait until the other \fInumplayers\fR\-1 players
have joined (see \-join).
.TP
\fB\-iwad\fR \fIfile\fR
Many source ports support multiple games (usually at least Registered Doom, Ultimate
Doom, Final Doom, and Doom II; sometimes Shareware Doom, FreeDoom, Heretic, Hexen,
Strife, Chex Quest, etc). This option usually exists so the user can select which
game to play.

Depending on the engine, the \fIfile\fR may have to be a full path, or it may
be searched for in the directories specified by \fBDOOMWADDIR\fR and/or
\fBDOOMWADPATH\fR, or the path may be set in the config file. Also, the
\fI.wad\fR extension may be required or optional, and the filename may
be treated case\-sensitively or not. Basically, see your engine's
documentation, or use trial\-and\-error.
.TP
\fB\-join\fR \fIhost\fR

Join a multiplayer game, in zdoom and related source ports. \fIhost\fR
is the IP address or hostname of the server (which was started using
the \-host option).
.TP
\fB\-loadgame\fR
.br
(configuration, warping)
.br
doom \-loadgame <savegame>

This parameter starts Doom from a previously saved game. The
savegame is normally a number from 0 to 5 (these stand for the 6
slots available from the "save game" menu) although an edited slot
using any other single readable character, such as a single digit
number or a letter, will also be loaded (doom \-loadgame z will
load doomsavz.dsg). If you use this parameter with \-record, a demo
will be produced, but it will quite likely not properly be played
back, becuase it will start "from scratch" on the usual player
start, instead of using the location and conditions of the saved
game, even if \-loadgame is used along with \-playdemo or \-timedemo
(in which cases it is ignored).
.TP
\fB\-maxdemo\fR
.br
(recording)
.br
doom \-record <demo> \-maxdemo <kilobytes>

This defines the maximum size in kilobytes for a demo recording,
instead of the usual value of 128 (which is roughly 15 minutes for
a single\-player game). If the limit is reached while recording,
the game ends with a Demo <demo>.lmp recorded message in the
command line.
.TP
\fB\-net\fR
.br
(multiplayer)
.br
doom \-net <player> <ip> [<ip> ...]

Starts a multiplayer game. The first argument specifies the player number
(starting from 0), while the remaining arguments specify the IP addresses
of the other machines in the game. For example, to start a game between
two machines with IP addresses 192.168.0.1 and 192.168.0.2, the first
user would type doom \-net 0 192.168.0.2 and the second user would type
doom \-net 1 192.168.0.1.

The above is just an example of how a source port might use the \-net
option. Refer to the documentation for your engine.
.TP
\fB\-nodraw\fR
.br
(output)
.br
doom \-timedemo <demo> \-nodraw

When the \-nodraw parameter is used along with \-timedemo the
graphics drawing functions of the Doom rendering engine are not
used, so the speed of the underlying engine can be measured
without any resources spent displaying the in\-game graphics.
Without \-timedemo, this parameter has no effect.
.TP
\fB\-noblit\fR
.br
(none)
.br
doom \-noblit

This is a disabled parameter similar to \-nodraw with which, during
development, the programmers told the engine not to pass data from
an internal buffer onto the screen.
.TP
\fB\-nomonsters\fR
.br
(monsters)
.br
doom \-warp <level> \-nomonsters

If the \-nomonsters parameter is applied, monsters will not be
spawned when any levels are loaded. It is usually used along with
deathmatch modes although it can also be useful for walkthroughs
and during testing. It must be used along with a warping
parameter, to be effective.
.TP
\fB\-nomouse\fR
.br
(input)
.br
doom \-nomouse

This parameter disables the mouse during the game session.
.TP
\fB\-nomusic\fR
.br
(output)
.br
doom \-nomusic

The \-nomusic parameter simply disables the background music during
the game session.
.TP
\fB\-nosfx\fR
.br
(output)
.br
doom \-nosfx

This parameter disables the game's sound effects (screams, clunks,
.br
explosions, and so on) during the game session.
.TP
\fB\-nosound\fR
.br
(output)
.br
doom \-nosound

With \-nosound both music and sound effects are disabled during the
game session.
.TP
\fB\-playdemo\fR
.br
(recording, warping)
.br
doom \-playdemo <lump>

Demo recordings are played using the \-playdemo parameter. The lump
variable is the name of a lump, excluding any file extension and
without a file path. The parameter will play any one demo in the
directory where the engine is executed, in the IWAD, or that is
loaded using the \-file parameter (as part of a PWAD or as a
separate lump). In the latter cases the engine will state that it
hasn't found the demo, but it will play it any way (as the message
refers to not finding it in the directory the engine is launched
from). If the specified lump does not exist, the engine exits to
the command prompt with an error message.
.TP
\fB\-port\fR
.br
(multiplayer)
.br
doom \-port <port>

In original DOS Doom, this was used for IPX and modem connections.
Many modern source ports use \-port to set the UDP port number
to be used for networked multiplayer.
.TP
\fB\-record\fR
.br
(recording, warping)
.br
doom \-record <demo>

The \-record parameter tells the engine to generate a demo lump
containing the actions of any participating players when it exits
to the command prompt, displaying a message that the demo has been
recorded, instead of the ENDOOM screen. The demo variable is the
name of the lump to be created, excluding any file extension and
optionally including a file path. If a file path is included, the
demo will be recorded only if the target directory exists. If the
directory in the optional path does not exist, the engine will
state a demo has been recorded upon exiting the game, but no demo
will be produced. If this parameter is not used along with a
warping parameter, it will load the first level of the game. If it
is applied without a demo name, it will try to read any following
parameter as a name, or will have no effect if nothing follows.

When this parameter is applied the Q key will immediately exit the
game, and since the demo format simplifies what tics are recorded
for the player's movements, movement may be slightly less
accurate. This is noticeable while using the mouse and, if a
multiplayer game is attempted, it will not allow a recording peer
to connect to one that is not recording (a consistency failure
will occur.

When used with the \-cdrom parameter it may be necessary to use a
path\-and\-file name for the demo string, particularly if the game
is launched from a CD, or else Doom will attempt to unsuccessfully
write the demo lump onto the disc.
.TP
\fB\-recordfrom\fR
.br
(recording, warping)
.br
doom \-recordfrom <savegame> <demo>

This parameter was meant to record from a saved game, where
savegame is generally a number from 0 to 5, and demo the name of
the lump to be recorded. It was never fully implemented, as in
versions 1.0 to the leaked "1.4" of Doom it warps to the start of
the level the saved game takes place in, instead of loading the
saved game, and does not record a demo. In later versions, it was
removed.
.TP
\fB\-regdev\fR
.br
(configuration)
.br
doom \-regdev

With \-regdev the id Software developers told the engine to read
.br
the WAD and lump data for the registered game (Doom) from
specified directories.
.TP
\fB\-respawn\fR
.br
(gameplay, monsters)
.br
doom \-warp <map> \-respawn

The \-respawn parameter makes each monster return via respawning
after a few seconds. Monster corpses are teleported away and
replaced by a live monster teleporting in at the monster's initial
starting location on the level. After respawned monsters remain
active and move immediately if any opponent they were pursuing
before death occurred still lives, but will be spawned in dormant
state otherwise. The parameter requires warping (such as \-episode)
to be effective and was first introduced with version 1.2 of Doom.
.TP
\fB\-right\fR
.br
(output)
.br
doom \-net 3 \-right

Under Doom version 1.0 or 1.1, the \-right parameter will cause a
networked computer to display the area to the right of the
player's normal view.

Several modern source ports have reinstated support for \-left
and \-right.
.TP
\fB\-shdev\fR
.br
(configuration)
.br
doom \-shdev

With \-shdev the id Software developers told the engine to read the
WAD and lump data for the shareware game (Doom: Knee\-Deep in the
.br
Dead) from specified directories.
.TP
\fB\-skill\fR
.br
(gameplay, monsters, warping)
.br
doom \-skill <level>

Doom's difficulty skill level can be chosen during start\-up by
using the \-skill parameter. The level variable stands for the
particular skill level, where 1 is "I'm Too Young To Die", 2 is
"Hey, Not Too Rough", 3 is "Hurt Me Plenty", 4 is
"Ultra\-Violence", and 5 is "Nightmare!". If a value of 0 (or any
character of less value than a 1) is chosen, all things except for
the player are absent from the game. This parameter will warp the
player to the first level of the game if another warping parameter
is not included in the command line.
.TP
\fB\-save\fR \fIdir\fR, \fB\-savedir\fR \fIdir\fR

Sets the directory for saved games. This is system\- and
engine\-dependent. On *NIX, the default is usually \fI~/.<engine>/\fR
or similar. Not all source ports support this option.
.TP
\fB\-shotdir\fR \fIdir\fR

Sets the directory for screenshots. This is system\- and
engine\-dependent. On *NIX, the default is usually \fI~/.<engine>/\fR
or just ~ (user's home directory). Not all source ports support this option.
.TP
\fB\-timedemo\fR
.br
(analysis, recording, warping)
.br
doom \-timedemo <lump>

The \-timedemo parameter plays a demo without limiting graphics to
35 frames per second and upon exiting to the command prompt
displays the number of screen frames drawn (gametics) and the time
taken to play them (realtics), instead of the ENDOOM screen. The
average screen frame rate on a level can be determined with this
information (realtics/gametics*35=fps). If a demo recording spans
more than one level, the resulting values will be incorrect, as
the realtics will correspond only to the last level played.

Like during the built\-in demo sequence normally played at the
start of a game, this parameter makes most device input bring up
the menu while the demo is playing, so pressing the Tab key to
select automap mode or pressing Enter to display the last status
message can't be used. Some non\-playing functions do still work,
such as increasing or decreasing the screen size.
.TP
\fB\-timer\fR
.br
(multiplayer)
driver \-deathmatch \-timer <minutes>

With \-timer users tell Doom to automatically exit levels to the
intermission screen after a number of minutes, as if an exit
switch had been activated. The parameter requires either
\-deathmatch or \-altdeath to have any effect.
.TP
\fB\-turbo\fR
.br
(gameplay)
.br
doom \-turbo <percentage>

The \-turbo parameter multiplies the player's movement speed by a
percentage of 10 (the player moves ten times slower than usual) to
400 (the player moves four times faster than usual). When no value
is specified, the player moves at twice normal speed, and any
value exceeding 255 will cause the player to move backwards at
twice the increased speed if the user presses the "run" key
.br
(key_speed).
.TP
\fB\-warp\fR
.br
(warping)
.br
doom \-warp <map>

This parameter selects on what level the game will start, skipping
title screen and the demo sequence. When playing Doom both an
episode number from 1 to 3 and a map number from 1 to 9 must be
specified, with a space in between, while in Doom II only a map
.br
number from 1 (or 01) to 32 is required. If no variable is placed
after the parameter, the game starts with the title screen as
usual. The \-warp parameter first appears in the leaked "v1.4"
version.

In *NIX environments, when using both an episode and mission
with \-warp, the episode and mission should be separate
arguments: Do not use \fI\-warp "1 3"\fR, use \fI\-warp 1 3\fR instead.
.TP
\fB\-wart\fR
.br
(configuration, warping)
.br
doom \-devparm \-wart <map>

The \-wart parameter is an earlier version of \-warp. In versions
above 1.2 it is superseded by \-warp, but is still available
instead as a development parameter that does not require \-devparm
and which attempts to load a WAD file named after level located in
a hard\-coded directory; 1 3 will try to load E1M3.wad, for
example. If the WAD file it not found, the user is sent to the
command prompt with a W_Reload error message. This parameter
allowed the developers to play the game and work on the maps at
the same time, seeing changes in near\-real\-time by using the warp
cheat to return to the level. It would be reloaded with any
changes saved in the editor.
.TP
\fB\-windowed\fR, \fB\-window\fR, \fB\-nofullscreen\fR, \fB\-nofs\fR

Some source ports use this to set windowed display mode,
overriding the setting in the config file.
.TP
\fB@\fR
.br
(configuration)
.br
doom @<response>

This parameter tells the Doom engine to read from a response file,
a text file that may store additional command line parameters. The
file may have any name that is valid to the system, optionally
with an extension. The parameters are typed as in the command line
(\-episode 2, for example), but one per line, where up to 100 lines
may be used. The additional parameters may be disabled for later
use by placing a vertical bar (the | character) between the
prefixing dash (\-) and the rest of the parameter name.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Doom source ports for UNIX\-like systems often use \fBDOOMWADDIR\fR and/or
\fBDOOMWADPATH\fR to find the IWAD files.

\fBDOOMWADDIR\fR is a single
directory, and should be set to the location of your IWAD file(s) (often
/usr/share/games/doom).

\fBDOOMWADPATH\fR is a colon\-separated list of
directories, like the standard \fBPATH\fR variable. Engines that use
it will look in all the listed directories.

Source ports that use SDL may also honor the various SDL\-related
environment variables (such as \fBSDL_AUDIODRIVER\fR and \fBSDL_VIDEODRIVER\fR).
See the SDL documentation.

